# Newton-Raphson-Based-Optimizer-NRBO-
The Newton-Raphson-Based Optimizer (NRBO), a new metaheuristic algorithm, is suggested and developed in this paper. The NRBO is inspired by Newton-Raphson's approach, and it explores the entire search process using two rules: the Newton-Raphson Search Rule (NRSR) and the Trap Avoidance Operator (TAO) and a few groups of matrices to explore the best results further. The NRSR uses a Newton-Raphson method to improve the exploration ability of NRBO and increase the convergence rate to reach improved search space positions. The TAO helps the NRBO to avoid the local optima trap. The performance of NRBO was assessed using 64 benchmark numerical functions, including 23 standard benchmarks, 29 CEC2017 constrained benchmarks, and 12 CEC2022 benchmarks. In addition, the NRBO was employed to optimize 12 CEC2020 real-world constrained engineering optimization problems. The proposed NRBO was compared to seven state-of-the-art optimization algorithms, and the findings showed that the NRBO produced promising results due to its features, such as high exploration and exploitation balance, high convergence rate, and effective avoidance of local optima capabilities. In addition, the NRBO also validated on challenging wireless communication problem called the internet of vehicle problem, and the NRBO was able to find the optimal path for data transmission. Also, the performance of NRBO in training the deep reinforcement learning agents is also studied by considering the mountain car problem. The obtained results also proved the NRBO's excellent performance in handling challenging real-world engineering problems.

Citation Format:
R. Sowmya, M. Premkumar, and P. Jangir, “Newton-Raphson-Based Optimizer: A New Population-Based Metaheuristic Algorithm for Continuous Optimization Problems,” Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 128, pp. 107532, February 2024, doi: 10.1016/j.engappai.2023.107532.
